Okay in the last lecture we have been talking about artistic progression.
We work very simple example.
And in this case we are going to use this credit data that yes we in order to make credit scoring with
the help of logistic regression.
So we have the data set the data set has several columns as you can see income age low on loan to income
ratio and whether the client has defaulted or not.
That's why it is a binary classification problem is 0 or 1 default or not.
OK so this is the dataset we are going to use.
First of all we are able to analyze the data set.
So if we run this algorithm as you can see already the data that had is going to print out the first
few lines of the data set.
So as you can see the first five samples as far as the client id the income the age the loan the loan
to income ratio and the default is concern.
So this is the credit data that had described so credit data that describe is going to printout the
most relevant statistics related features such as the mean such as the standard deviation the minimum
term the maximum item.
So as you can see there are 2000 training samples in the credit data that ESV file.
OK we have the mean of the income meaning of the age meaning of the loan meaning of the loan to income
ratio.
We have the standard deviation and we have all of the standard deviation we are able to calculate the
variance.
Okay then we have the minimum item and the maximum item and then we are able to calculate the correlation
between the features.
So as you can see this correlation is going to be a matrix with as many rows as the number of features
and as many columns as the number of features and every single value in this matrix is going to be a
correlation between two features.
OK.
Just to summarize it quickly.
Let's talk a bit about the variance covariance and correlation.
The mean is the expected value of an X random variable in the population.
So this is how we can calculate it.
For example if we are dealing with the role of a die we just have to calculate this formula.
We just have to sum up the X Sabai times the P where P is the probability of that given x Sabai random
variable.
So that's why the probability of these outcomes as far as the roll of a dice concern is a one divided
by six so one times won't divide by six plus two times one divide by six and so on 3.5 it's going to
be the expected value of x.
Ok what about the variance the variance or sigma squared is equal to the expected value of X minus the
mean of x squared.
This is the variance and the square root of the variance is the standard deviation.
OK what about the covariance.
We are able to define the covariance for two random variables x and y.
It is a measure of the joint variability of two random variables.
It is a diamond all measure and it is not normalized.
It is hard to compare data sets with large differences in the sprad.
So that's why correlation is preferred and correlation is the covariance divide by the standard deviations.
So this is the covariance as you can see and we have to divide it by Sigma X and sigma Y which is the
standard deviation of X and the standard deviation of y.
This correlation is of value within the range minus 1 and plus 1 if it is greater than zero.
It means positively in your relationship between variables.
If it is smaller than 0 there is a negative relationship between the variables and if it is 0 it means
no relationship between the variables.
OK so these values within the range minus 1 and plus 1.
Of course the feature with itself south has correlation Plosser one.
So that's why all the values in the diagonal equals to warm.
But as you can see there are lots of lots of features that are positively correlated.
Lots of lots of features that are negatively correlated.
OK so we are able to analyze the data set with the help of these.
Describe and had.
OK we are able to get the features and we are able to get the target varietals.
So there are going to be three features in our example which means that it is going to be a multinomial
logistic regression we will use income.
We will use H and we will use it as features and basically it means that when dealing with the sigmoid
function and logistic regression in the xponent we will have for better paramita as beat is 0 plus veto
one BD 2 and be just 3 bita 1 times X-1 where X-1 is that income between two times X-2 our X-2 is the
age Bilas three times x 3 x 3 is the loan.
So we have three features.
That's why there are going to be 3 x varietals X1 x 2 x 3 income age and loan.
Then of course the dependent variable is the default.
So we would like to handle income values age values and loan values in order to credit default or whether
the client is able to pay back the loan or not.
So the default is going to be the output variable then we are going to create some training data set
and test data set.
So this is the usual case as far as machine learning algorithms are concerned that we are going to use
some portion of the original dataset for training purposes and then we will use the last 30 percent
of the data sat for test purposes.
So what does it mean exactly that if we have these income age and Loan features we are going to use
the logistic regression to predict the outcome.
So whether the client has defaulted or not and we have this value in the original dataset because it
is a supervised learning algorithm.
So thats why we are able to measure the accuracy and precision of the model because we have the values
we know for certain present in the data set and we have the prediction by the model.
Okay so we are going to use this crane task split imported from Italy and that was validation.
We just have to define the features and the targets and the size is going to be serve the person.
What does it mean that 70 percent of the dataset is for training purposes.
So we are going to train the algorithm on 70 percent of the data and we are going to test the accuracy
of the algorithm on 30 percent of the data in the next lecture we are going to talk about the concrete
implementation logistic regression and how to measure the precision of the algorithm.
Thanks for watching.